---
title: Version Control Through Git/Github
layout: default
---

# Git/Github 
Say you're working on a difficult piece of code. You make a change, and everything breaks. You want one of your fellow software/electrical students to go back to the old version and help you fix it: but how? Git and Github!

Git is a method of version control: it allows you to safely make changes to your code and have the confidence that you can rollback to older versions. GitHub allows you to use the git framework to be able to collaborate with others through a digital repository. Here's a brief video that'll explain the background behind Github: 

<iframe width="720" height="540" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w3jLJU7DT5E" frameborder="0"> </iframe>

Go through this resource to see the advantages of Git: https://dev.to/milu_franz/git-explained-the-basics-igc Don't worry too much about the commands listed at the bottom


Alright, before we dive into the weeds of it, let's create your Github account to be able to access the dpengineering organization. Navigate to [this page] and fill out all of your information. Be sure to choose a serious username, as this is going to be used to track your commits. 

Now, be sure to sign up for the [student developer pack] to be able to get sweet freebies from github! You'll have to select the Dos Pueblos Engineering Academy as your school, and upload a photo of your school ID. As our IDs are on Minga, I'd reccomend taking a screenshot of your ID, emailing that photo to yourself, accessing that email on your drive, and uploading that to the page. Little bit convoluted, but gets the job done.

The traditional way to use Git and Github is through the command line. However, the command line is not a streamlined process for pushing and pulling, particularly with the Github authentication manager, so we'll be covering how to use the Github Desktop application instead. 

The process for installing the Github Desktop app is a little bit precarious as well, as it's not supported out of the box for Linux. There are solutions, however!

Copying and pasting text contained within the terminal requires an additional key: rather than just Ctrl-V, you need to type in Ctrl-Shift-V. The same applies to copying text from the terminal, though it's not applicable in our current scenario.
{: .note }

Enter your terminal and copy paste these commands in, one line at a time. The first command will prompt you for your password -- enter it in, and don't be alarmed if no text shows up, as that's standard for all passwords in the terminal. You'll also likely need to type in yes or y in the process when prompted. 

```bash
sudo wget https://github.com/shiftkey/desktop/releases/download/release-3.1.1-linux1/GitHubDesktop-linux-3.1.1-linux1.deb

sudo apt-get install gdebi-core 

sudo gdebi GitHubDesktop-linux-3.1.1-linux1.deb
```

Now, navigate to the grid of 9 at the bottom right corner of your application bar to open your window. Scroll through till you reach the application Github Desktop, and click on it. 






[this page]: https://github.com/join?source=header-home
[student developer pack]: https://education.github.com/pack











